Software Developer
Oakville, Ontario - Canada; Toronto, Ontario - Canada; Waterloo, Ontario - Canada
Who we are:
Geotab ® is a global leader in IoT and connected transportation and certified “Great Place to Work™.” We are a company of diverse and talented individuals who work together to help businesses grow and succeed, and increase the safety and sustainability of our communities.
 
Geotab is advancing security, connecting commercial vehicles to the internet and providing web-based analytics to help customers better manage their fleets. Geotab’s open platform and Geotab Marketplace ®, offering hundreds of third-party solution options, allows both small and large businesses to automate operations by integrating vehicle data with their other data assets. Processing billions of data points a day, Geotab leverages data analytics and machine learning to improve productivity, optimize fleets through the reduction of fuel consumption, enhance driver safety and achieve strong compliance to regulatory changes.
 
Our team is growing and we’re looking for people who follow their passion, think differently and want to make an impact. Ours is a fast paced, ever changing environment. Geotabbers accept that challenge and are willing to take on new tasks and activities - ones that may not always be described in the initial job description. Join us for a fulfilling career with opportunities to innovate, great benefits, and our fun and inclusive work culture. Reach your full potential with Geotab. To see what it’s like to be a Geotabber, check out our blog and follow us @InsideGeotab on Instagram. Join our talent network to learn more about job opportunities and company news.
Who you are:

You are a skilled Software Developer with demonstrated experience building reliable, large scale applications. You can complete assignments independently or in a team environment. You are skilled in the use of current programming languages and tools (backend and/or front end) and act as a team resource on custom development initiatives. You find reward in building robust software that can function 24/7 with no down time. If you love technology and are passionate about creating software - we would love to hear from you.
What you'll do:

Geotab is growing and we are currently hiring for multiple positions across our software development teams, including Backend Developers (C#, ASP.NET, Docker, Kubernetes, Postgres, GCP) and Full Stack Developers (C#, ASP.NET, TypeScript, React, Redux, GCP). In both roles, you'll prioritize code quality through unit, integration, and end-to-end testing, as well as defensive coding practices to ensure stable and scalable releases.

This is an exciting opportunity to tackle complex technical challenges while contributing to the build and improvement of one of our many core applications. You will be expected to follow software development best practices and ensure that only high-quality code is shipped to our 50,000+ customers across 160 countries. With over 4 million devices deployed, helping our customers improve safety can have a significant impact, potentially affecting tens of thousands of lives. This role offers opportunities for growth and development within a dynamic and innovative team.
How you'll make an impact

    Define, design, and implement new software applications in collaboration with other members of the development and technical teams, based on industry standards and best practices.Translate application storyboards and use cases into functional applications.
    Perform Test-Driven and Security-Driven Development.
    Conduct comprehensive code reviews and ensure that coding standards are followed.
    Analyze call stacks, trace files, debug logs or performance data to troubleshoot and identify the root cause of bugs.
    Participate in development of prototypes, minimum viable products and PoCs.
    Help maintain code quality, organization and automation.
    Perform maintenance programming for existing applications.
    Consider the functionality, performance, scalability, reliability, realistic implementation schedules and system architecture for each assignment.
    Provide design documents and documentation to ensure efficient maintenance and code reuse.
    Provide recommendations for improvements in the overall development process.
    Participate in a 24x7 on-call rotating schedule.

What you'll bring to the role

    2+ Years of experience as a Software Developer using object-oriented programming to build scalable, enterprise applications (C# preferred).
    Experience developing in a Linux environment, using C# and .Net Core and experience with optimization and multithreaded programming (for our back end and full stack teams).
    Experience programming with front end programming such as: React, JavaScript, CSS, Typescript and HTML (for our front end and full stack teams).
    Experience with System Design and Microservices Architecture (preferred).
    1+ years of cloud computing experience with either GCP, AWS, or Azure.
    Expert knowledge with SQL Server database design, optimization and writing queries. Postgres SQL is nice to have.
    Experience with writing unit tests and automation tests.
    Experience with Docker and Kubernetes (preferred).
    Proficiency in Git (or some other distributed source control tool) and are comfortable with resolving merge conflicts and renaming branches, etc.
    Bachelors or Diploma in Computer Science, Electrical/Software Engineering or other related discipline.

If you got this far, we hope you're feeling excited about this role! Even if you don't feel you meet every single requirement, we still encourage you to apply. Even if you don't feel you meet every single requirement, we still encourage you to apply. Please ensure to fill our our application questions accurately so we can map you to the proper teams. 
 
Please note: Geotab does not accept agency resumes and is not responsible for any fees related to unsolicited resumes. Please do not forward resumes to Geotab employees.
 
Why job seekers choose Geotab

Flex working arrangements
Home office reimbursement program
Baby bonus & parental leave top up program
Online learning and networking opportunities
Electric vehicle purchase incentive program
Competitive medical and dental benefits
Retirement savings program

*The above are offered to full-time permanent employees only
How we work
At Geotab, we have adopted a flexible hybrid working model in that we have systems, functions, programs and policies in place to support both in-person and virtual work. However, you are welcomed and encouraged to come into our beautiful, safe, clean offices as often as you like. When working from home, you are required to have a reliable internet connection with at least 50mb DL/10mb UL. Virtual work is supported with cloud-based applications, collaboration tools and asynchronous working. The health and safety of employees are a top priority. We encourage work-life balance and keep the Geotab culture going strong with online social events, chat rooms and gatherings. Join us and help reshape the future of technology!
